# SPERO LAB TnSeq Library Assessment Pipeline

This repository contains the scripts and materials required to run the Spero Lab's TnSeq Library Assessment Pipeline. 

Required input for this pipeline include 1. the FASTQ file(s) from your tnseq library, 2. a FASTA file from the appropriate reference genome, and 3. a GFF file from the same reference genome. 

Once succesfully run, the pipeline should output the following. 

(1) Mutant_Lib_{sample name}_Annotations.tsv: includes annotations (QNAME, CHROM, START, END, Gene Name, etc.) for all filtered reads. 

(2) Mutant_Lib_{sample name}_Diversity.tsv: includes the quantity of detected insertions per gene. 

(3) Mutant_Lib_{sample name}_Unique_Insertions.tsv: includes the quantity of detected insertions per unique START position.

(4) fastqc/: a folder containing the fastqc reports from before and after filtering reads. 

(5) Mutant_Library_QC_Report.R: an R markdown report summarizing the quality of the generated tnseq library. Metrics include percentage of mapped reads, essential gene count, unique insertions count, etc. 

The repository for this pipeline is organized as such:

TnSeq_Library_Assessment/
- config/ → contains .yml files where users can specify adjustable parameters that influence pipeline output
- data/ → designated folder where all required input files will be copied into
- results/ → stores output files generated by pipeline, including processed data for downstream analyses and quality control reports
- intermediate/ → houses intermediate files generated during the pipeline run 
- scripts/ → includes pipeline scripts (code) that perform data processing and analysis steps — modifying these files may disrupt pipeline functionality

For more details on the functionality and details of this pipeline, please refer to the manual (Internship Report #2) submitted by Kenneth Lai or contact them by kenneth.lok.sun.lai@gmail.com. Additional documents (such as notebooks or test/example data) may be available upon request. This pipeline is still under development. 



